docs: add troubleshooting guide for AggregatorHostHealth group (#159)
canonical/observability-stack: docs/explanation/generic-rules.md

Reviewer: Feel free to tag me on any of the suggestions if you have questions/etc! I'll try to explain each of the changes I suggest so you can understand why I suggested XYZ and can determine how/if you want to implement them.

# Generic alert rule groups

> The Canonical Observability Stack (COS) includes Generic alert rules which provide a minimal set of rules to inform admins when hosts in a deployment are unhealthy, unreachable, or otherwise unresponsive. This helps relieves charm authors from having to implement their host-health-related alerts per charm. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Canonical Observability Stack (COS) includes Generic alert rules which provide a minimal set of rules to inform admins when hosts in a deployment are unhealthy, unreachable, or otherwise unresponsive. This helps relieve charm authors from having to implement their host-health-related alerts per charm. 
```
Oh oops that actually came from me :blush:

There are two generic alert rule groups: `HostHealth` and `AggregatorHostHealth`, each containing multiple alert rules.

> This guide provides explanations on the purposes of each rule group and its alerts. For steps to troubleshoot firing alert rules, please refer to the [troubleshooting guide](../how-to/troubleshooting/troubleshoot-firing-alert-rules.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This guide explains the purpose of each rule group and its alerts. For steps to troubleshoot firing alert rules, refer to the [troubleshooting guide](../how-to/troubleshooting/troubleshoot-firing-alert-rules.md).
```
- Line break to start a new paragraph
- Reduced wordiness
- Remove "please" - I don't recommend you use that in docs unless you're really asking the user to do something special (e.g., "If you have any issues, please complete our feedback form.")

Also as a side note, but I noticed you're using filepaths for links rather than ref targets. This isn't something to fix in this PR, but just letting you know that it's brittle (if you move files around or change the name, you have to fix the links too). Sphinx has some syntax where you can link to targets and move your files freely. I have an [internal doc on my team](https://canonical-landscape-internal.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/documentation/contribute-to-docs/#links-within-the-docs-crossrefs) which shows the formatting if you're interested in exploring that, and you can find examples of it all over the Landscape Docs. (Pretty sure I also have a script somewhere to add these throughout the whole docs if your team wants to change the format - I'd have to look for it though)

The `HostHealth` and `AggregatorHostHealth` alert rule groups are applicable to the following deployment scenarios:

```{mermaid}
graph LR

subgraph lxd
vm-charm1 ---|cos_agent| grafana-agent
vm-charm2 ---|monitors| cos-proxy
end

subgraph k8s
k8s-charm1 ---|metrics_endpoint| prometheus
k8s-charm2 ---|metrics_endpoint| grafana-agent-k8s
grafana-agent-k8s ---|prometheus_remote_write| prometheus
end

grafana-agent ---|prometheus_remote_write| prometheus
cos-proxy ---|metrics_endpoint| prometheus
```
You can find more information on these groups and the alert rules they contain below.

## `HostHealth` alert group
The `HostHealth` alert rule group contains the `HostDown` and `HostMetricsMissing` alert rules, identifying unreachable target scenarios.

### `HostDown` alert rule

> The purpose of this alert is to notify when Prometheus (or Mimir) failed to scrape its target. The alert expression executes `up{...} < 1` with labels including the target's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, etc. In essence, this alert notifies you in case of failed scrapes and is directly applicable to cases where a charm is being scraped by Prometheus for metrics. The [`up` metric](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/jobs_instances/), which is what this alert's expression relies on, indicates the health or reachability status of a node. For example, when `up` is 1 for a charm, this is a sign that Prometheus is able to successfully call the metrics endpoint of that charm and access the metrics that are exposed at that endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HostDown` alert rule notifies you when Prometheus (or Mimir) fails to scrape its target. The alert expression executes `up{...} < 1` with labels including the target's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, etc. This alert is directly applicable to cases where a charm is being scraped by Prometheus for metrics. The [`up` metric](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/jobs_instances/), which is what this alert's expression relies on, indicates the health or reachability status of a node. For example, when `up` is 1 for a charm, this is a sign that Prometheus is able to successfully call the metrics endpoint of that charm and access the metrics that are exposed at that endpoint.
```
Suggestions explained:
- "The purpose of this alert..." changes to "This <NAME> alert..." - this is just to make it more concise and clear. I'm not going to add that same wording to each section, but if you do implement this, I suggest you do it for all the alert rules so they're consistent
- Removed redundant information

Additional suggestion:
- You could move "This alert is directly applicable to cases where a charm is being scraped by Prometheus for metrics." one sentence earlier. So the structure is like <definition> <use_case> <juju_details>. I think this reads easier, although I'm not familiar with the context being described here

Author: Suggestions implemented! I've moved "This alert is directly applicable to cases where a charm is being scraped by Prometheus for metrics." one sentence earlier

> This alert is especially important for Cos Lite, where Prometheus is capable of scraping charms for metrics. The firing of this alert indicates that Prometheus is not able to scrape a target for metrics, leading to `up` being 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This alert is especially important for COS Lite, where Prometheus is capable of scraping charms for metrics. The firing of this alert indicates that Prometheus is not able to scrape a target for metrics, leading to `up` = 0.
```
- Cos -> COS
- I think the = is easier to follow given the technical context

> ### `HostMetricsMissing`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `HostMetricsMissing` alert rule
```
- Matches the formatting of the other alert rule sections

```{note}

> `HostMetricsMissing` is also used in the `AggregatorHostHealth` group. As part of the `HostHealth` group, however, it monitors the health of all charms whose metrics are collected by an aggregator and then remote written to a metrics backend and not just aggregators (see the `AggregatorHostHealth` group for details on the distinction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HostMetricsMissing` is also used in the `AggregatorHostHealth` group. As part of the `HostHealth` group, however, it monitors the health of any charm (not just aggregators) whose metrics are collected by an aggregator and then remote written to a metrics backend. See the `AggregatorHostHealth` group for details on the distinction.
```
This note was confusing to me. Moving the clarifying part earlier in the paragraph makes it better. Although feel free to make changes to the language if my suggestion changed the meaning of it

```

The purpose of this alert is to notify when metrics are not reaching the Prometheus (or Mimir) database, regardless of whether scrape succeeded. The alert expression executes `absent(up{...})` with labels including the aggregator's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, `juju_unit`, etc. 

Like the `HostDown` rule, the purpose of this rule is to give you an idea of the health of a node and whether it is reachable. However, unlike `HostDown`, `HostMetricsMissing` is used in scenarios where metrics from a charm are remote written into Prometheus or Mimir, as opposed to being scraped. This rule is especially important in COS, where the use of Mimir instead of Prometheus warrants metrics to be remote written (as Mimir does not scrape).

To provide an example to distinguish between `HostDown` and `HostMetricsMissing`, consider how the health of Alertmanager can be monitored in different deployment scenarios below:

> - In Cos Lite, metrics from Alertmanager are scraped by Prometheus. A successful scrape results in `up` = 1 and a failed scrape results in `up` = 0. As a result, we can rely on the `HostDown` alert to notify in case of issues with the scrape i.e. when `up` is 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In COS Lite, metrics from Alertmanager are scraped by Prometheus. A successful scrape results in `up` = 1 and a failed scrape results in `up` = 0. As a result, we can rely on the `HostDown` alert to notify in case of issues with the scrape, i.e. when `up` = 0.
```
- Changed to = in the last one to stay consistent with the previous notation

- In COS HA, a collector such as `opentelemetry-collector` scrapes Alertmanager and then remote writes the collected metrics into Mimir. In this scenario, in Mimir, we either have an `up` of 1 or an absent `up` altogether. Here, we need the `HostMetricsMissing` alert to be aware of the health of Alertmanager. Note that it is possible that the scrape of Alertmanager being made by the aggregator is successful and that `up` is missing because the aggregator is failing to remote write what it has scraped.

## `AggregatorHostHealth` alert group

> The `AggregatorHostHealth` alert rule group focuses explicitly on the health of aggregators (AKA remote writers), such as `opentelemetry-collector` and `grafana-agent`. This group contains the `HostMetricsMissing` and the `AggregatorMetricsMissing` alert rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AggregatorHostHealth` alert rule group focuses explicitly on the health of aggregators (remote writers), such as `opentelemetry-collector` and `grafana-agent`. This group contains the `HostMetricsMissing` and the `AggregatorMetricsMissing` alert rules.
```
- To remove the "AKA" acronym. You could also write out "also known as"

### `HostMetricsMissing` alert rule

> As mentioned before, the purpose of this alert is to notify when metrics are not reaching the Prometheus (or Mimir) database, regardless of whether scrape succeeded. The alert expression executes `absent(up{...})` with labels including the aggregator's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, `juju_unit`, etc. However, when it comes to aggregators, this rule indicates whether alerts from a collector itself are reaching the metrics backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this alert is to notify when metrics are not reaching the Prometheus (or Mimir) database, regardless of whether scrape succeeded. The alert expression executes `absent(up{...})` with labels including the aggregator's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, `juju_unit`, etc. However, when it comes to aggregators, this rule indicates whether alerts from a collector itself are reaching the metrics backend.
```
- Remove "as mentioned before" - often users aren't reading a document from top to bottom. They might just click right into this alert if that's all they want to read about, so phrasing like that can be disjointed

Author: Removed "as mentioned before". Also removed "The purpose of" to be consistent with the suggestion on line 31 as suggested.

> When you have an aggregator charm (e.g. `opentelemetry-collector` or `grafana-agent`), this alert is duplicated per unit of that aggregator, i.e. identifying if the unit is missing a time series. For example, if you have 2 units of `opentelemetry-collector`, and one is behind a restrictive firewall, you should receive only one firing `HostMetricsMissing` alert.

Author: Great point. I've reworded the sentence to "this alert is duplicated per unit of that aggregator so that it identifies if a unit is missing a time series"

```{note}
By default, the severity of this alert is `warning`. However, when this alert is for a subordinate remote-writing machine charm, its severity is increased to `critical`.
```

### `AggregatorMetricsMissing` alert rule

> Similar to `HostMetricsMissing`, this alert is a generic rule that is applied to aggregators to ensure the existence of their `up` metric. The difference, however, is that `AggregatorMetricsMissing` will **fire when all units of an aggregator are down**. For this reason, the alert expression executes `absent(up{...})` with labels including the aggregator's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, but leaves out `juju_unit`. If you have 2 units of an aggregator and the `up` metric is missing for both, this alert will fire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `HostMetricsMissing`, this alert is applied to aggregators to ensure their `up` metric exists. The difference, however, is that `AggregatorMetricsMissing` **triggers only when *all units* of an aggregator are down**. For this reason, the alert expression executes `absent(up{...})` with labels including the aggregator's Juju topology: `juju_model`, `juju_application`, but leaves out `juju_unit`. If you have 2 units of an aggregator and the `up` metric is missing for both, this alert will fire.
```
- Removed some wordiness
- Made it clearer around the "all units" part. You could also just bold this instead of the whole thing
